---
layout: post
title:  "How to install Arch Linux on UEFI machine"
date:   2018-02-15 12:43:56
---


## Partitioning
I'm gonna create three separate partitions for my system: one for EFI system, second for swap and third for the system itself. 

Run `cfdisk /dev/sda` command and choose **gpt**. 

|partition   |type   | size  |
|---|---|---|
|sda1   |EFI system   |550M   |
|sda2  |Linux swap   |40G   |
|sda3  |Linux filesystem   |rest of space   |

Write down changes by choosing *Write* and answer yes to confirm, then quit cfdisk.
## Formatting
Next we need to format our partitions with the required filesystems and make the swap partition.
```bash
mkfs.fat -F32 /dev/sda1
mkswap /dev/sda2
mkfs.ext4 /dev/sda3
```
## Installing Arch Linux
Before we install the system we need our *sda3* partition to be mounted. And I'm also initializing the swap partition in this step.
```bash
mount /dev/sda3 /mnt
swapon /dev/sda2
```
It's a good idea to check *mirrorlist* just before we start to choose the closest mirror. Run this command  to open the *mirrorlist* file 
`nano /etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist` and just copy/paste your country server location on top of the list and save the file. 

Next, I assume you have working internet connection and we may start installing the system (takes some time)
```bash
pacstrap /mnt base base-devel
```
## Configuring 
After the installation completes, we need to generate *fstab* file
```bash
genfstab -U -p /mnt >> /mnt/etc/fstab
```
Chroot into your system path and generate a hostname 
```bash
arch-chroot /mnt
echo arch > /etc/hostname
```
Configure your system language by editing */etc/locale.gen* file. Open the file by running `nano /etc/locale.gen` and uncomment the needed locale the save it. Then generate your system language layout.
```bash
locale-gen
echo LANG=en_US.UTF-8 > /etc/locale.conf
export LANG=en_US.UTF-8
```
Configure your time zone by creating a symlink and configure your hardware clock to use UTC as it's usually set to the local time.
```bash
ln -sf /usr/share/zoneinfo/US/Eastern /etc/localtime
hwclock --systohc --utc
```
Setup the password for the root account and create a new user with *sudo* privileges and create a password for the user as well.
```bash
passwd
useradd -mg users -G wheel,storage,power -s /bin/bash YourNewUser
passwd YourNewUser
```
After that install the *sudo* package and update the *sudoers* file to grant administrative privileges to the user. 
Uncomment this line: `%wheel ALL=(ALL) ALL` and save the file.
```bash
pacman -S sudo
nano /etc/sudoers
```
## Installing the bootloader (GRUB)
Install the bootloader and needed packages, create a mounting point and mount the *sda1* partition.
```bash
pacman -S grub efibootmgr dosfstools os-prober mtools
mkdir /boot/EFI
mount /dev/sda1 /boot/EFI 
grub-install --target=x86_64-efi  --bootloader-id=grub_uefi --recheck
```
Don't forget to create the GRUB config file
```bash
grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

Now when Arch and the bootloader is installed we need to exit *chroot* environment, unmount all partitions and reboot to our newly installed system.
```bash
exit
umount -a
telinit 6
```
Log in with your user credentials when Arch boots up and start/enable the dhcpcd client.
```bash
sudo systemctl start dhcpcd
sudo systemctl enable dhcpcd
```
That's it. 
